---
layout: post
title: "Final Post - Advice to Future CS Students"
---

## What’s One Thing You’d Tell Someone Starting This Course?

For someone starting this course, I would really recommend asking for help when you need it. It might sound like a simple and cliche thing to say, but often times it is easy to find yourself stuck, and scared to ask for help. This will not help at all, as you will continue to be stuck without anyone knowing. Even in situations where it is not allowed to recieve help, it is still helpful to communicate that you are struggling so people can understand and maybe help you in ways you didn't expect. It is always better for other people to know what is happening rather than struggling alone.

## What Did You Learn That Might Stick With You?

A lesson that really stuck with me was the value of starting early. In a lot of my missions and projects, I took a while on the early steps (i.e. doing the preparation, setting up pygame, etc.) and I did not have enough time for the hard things. In situations where I did start early, I prospered and had enough time to think about a good solution. This idea can apply for pretty much anything, which is why it will be very useful going forward.

## What Helped You Get Through Challenges?

To be honest, I do not think I handled points of confusion perfectly. There were many points where I was very stuck, and I wasn't sure what to do. That being said, struggle is normal in the process. A good thing I practiced when struggling was to break the problem into bite sized parts, where I can then tackle each issue. 

## What’s Next for You?

There is a lot ahead. For one thing, I might want to finish up 2048 (bug fixes, improved design, game feel). My dad also is going to teach an online class, so I can use my jupyter notebook skills to help plan lessons as a summer job.
---
